---
layout: default
title: Capt
---

# A command line build tool

I built capt to help me build single page apps. Tools like Jammit are great for when you're working in a rails environment, but I found there weren't any really good tools for building apps that are standalone, for example couchapps, or standalone javascript apps that use XMPP or access a javascript api.

Imagine you're building the new twitter interface, capt is designed to build something like that.

## Alpha release!

Capt has been under development since November '10, but it's still very alpha, expect things to be missing / broken.

## Tutorial

There is a [tutorial here](/tutorial.html), it's incomplete, feel free to clone the documentation [branch](https://github.com/bnolan/capt/tree/gh-pages) and send me push requests.

## Installation 

Installation requires [npm](http://npmjs.org/), then:

    npm install capt
    
## Some code generation

Try this out to get an idea of what you can do.

    sudo npm install capt
    capt new project
    cd project
    capt generate model post
    capt generate controller posts
    capt server
    open http://localhost:3000/spec/
    open http://localhost:3000/
    
You should get 7 passing tests and some stubs to work with. 

## Ignoring .js and .css directories

Add `.js/` and `.css/` to your `.git/info/exclude` file. This will ignore all the hidden .js and .css files that are generated by capt.

## Create app structure

Run `capt new project` to create a project directory. Capt will creates the necessary files to get you up and running and will download the latest jQuery / backbone.

## Compiles .jst templates

You specify what your static html is going to look like as a `.jst` file, and capt will compile your index.html. You can include the following lines:

    <%= project.stylesheetIncludes() %>
    <%= project.scriptIncludes() %>

This will include seperate javascript files (in the correct dependency order) in development mode, or compile them all to one minimized file in production mode.

## Serves your app

You can start an node-powered webserver on port 3000 using:

    capt server

## Serves your jamine specs

By default your app will have a `/spec/` directory that includes jasmine and an index.jst. When you generate new models, capt will generate a stub spec in `/spec/models/`. Run the specs by browsing to `http://localhost:3000/spec/`.

## Manages dependency order and autoloads

Specify files in `config.yml`. The default config.yml looks like this:

    javascripts:
      - 'lib/jquery.js'
      - 'lib/underscore.js'
      - 'lib/backbone.js'
      - 'lib/less.js'
      - 'app/controllers/*.coffee'
      - 'app/views/**/*.coffee'
      - 'app/models/*.coffee'

    stylesheets:
      - 'public/stylesheets/*.less'
  
    specs:
      - 'spec/*/*.coffee'

Add files to each section to specify build order. Files will only be included once. For example:

    javascripts:
      - 'app/models/mybaseclass.coffee'
      - 'app/models/*.coffee'
